[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We live in the most
extraordinary time
in the entire
history of the world.
We know, based on the geological
record, that nothing like this
has ever happened
before on earth.
There's been great civilizations
that have come and gone,
but what we have now, with
our cars and our radios
and our stereos
and our computers
and our calculators
is unprecedented.
And it's brought about
unprecedented levels
of challenges and opportunities.
Because we can focus on
anything at any time,
I choose to focus on what
are the opportunities.
What is being created
out of, for example,
the environmental disasters that
have occurred on the planet?
What opportunities
are being opened up
by the nutritional
disasters that
have happened due to the
proliferation of junk food
and candy and all kinds
of artificial ingredients?
And what has emerged out
of those kinds of questions
and that type of focus is
an absolutely extraordinary
option, which is
the option to now
be able to have the
greatest food ever
in the history of the world.
The food choices
that are before us
are completely
diverse and varied.
It goes everything
from chemicals
all the way to the most
extraordinary foods
grown by the great medicine
schools in Tibet ever.
You know, this is how
wide our choices can be.
And any food that we
eat can literally just
take this much work.
It's either going to be
this, and then we eat,
or it's going to be
this, and then we eat.
And this right here could
be the most horrid chemical
soup of all time, or it could
be the most extraordinary
superfood of all time.
And it's the same amount of
work to get it into our mouths.
We're just creating an
awareness about these choices,
because awareness is really
the beginning of consciousness.
If we aren't aware that we
have the best food ever, then
we're never going to have it.
It's not like the
universe is just going
to dump that into our lap.
But the awareness suddenly
creates the possibility
of choice.
And then we start looking at
all these choices and going,
you know, instead of the
chemical pizza over here,
I'm going to have the
superfood lasagna over here.
That's, to me, an
extraordinary possibility,
because there is one thing
that trumps everything.
It's the one super
law of all reality.
It's a phrase that
every single person
in the world, every culture,
every language, every country,
every person the world knows it.
And it actually trumps, you are
what you think about all day
long.
It trumps Earl Nightingale's
strangest secret.
Every single success
principle rests upon this one.
And that is you
are what you eat.
You are what you eat is of
such profound significance
that it was actually
impossible for me,
personally, to understand
the import of that phrase
until many, many years of
leading a lifestyle of eating
really incredibly powerful
superfoods and raw foods
and some of the
most powerful foods
that are available
on the entire planet.
And from those experiences,
I realized just how far
off track our diet has
become, culturally, at least.
We, for whatever
reason, decided we're
going to spread everything
with every kind of pesticide,
herbicide, larvicide,
fungicide, suicide.
We decided we're going to
genetically modify things
we don't know anything about.
We decided, for
some reason, that we
were going to inject
hormones into cows
and then pasteurize
that milk to death
and then serve it to
millions of people.
We just decided
we're going to go
into this crazy
world of the unknown
and experiment on ourselves.
But what's interesting
is that experiment has
led to an incredible discovery.
And that is food does matter.
The food that we eat creates
the tissues of our body,
creates the quality of
the energy of our cells,
and very deliberately affects
the quality of our thoughts.
If we are eating
the best food ever,
and if I can be allowed
to list what that is,
that would include things like
raw chocolate nuts or cacao
beans-- the food that all
chocolate is made out of in its
natural state, not
in a processed state,
in its original state as a nut--
goji berries, spirulina,
bee pollen, wild honey,
blue green algae, hemp
seeds, aloe vera, fresh noni.
When you have that
food, you can no longer
be thinking about greed.
You can no longer
be in an environment
where you can
tolerate people lying.
You become pure in
thought, word, and deed.
And that has been a truth that
I've experienced personally.
And it is a shocking truth.
The world is the way that it
is, primarily, because the food
that we eat.
The architecture is the way
that it is because of the food
that we eat.
Our artistic
expression is the way
that it is because of
the food that we eat.
Our literature is the way
that it is because of the food
that we eat.
And if we shift our food
choices by doing the most simple
discovery, really, ever in
the whole history of diet,
which is adding
the good stuff in--
no longer are we in a state
of taking something away
from somebody, but just
adding the good stuff in, we
can then shift, literally,
our consciousness by food.
That, to me, is just a
monumental breakthrough.
It's a breakthrough.
It's a technological
discovery, because
of what it allows
us to do is leverage
our abilities, our
time, our skills.
Before I really got
oriented into natural foods,
organic foods, raw
foods, superfoods, a lot
of the success principles
that I'd learned and studied
as a kid, since the age of 14--
and I really started
studying success principles
from that point on.
I met Tony Robbins when
I was 14 years old,
did the 10-day program,
and got deeply into it.
But a lot of it was
unusable until I actually
got control of my
body by getting
on the proper nutrition.
Because I used to not feel well.
I'd be 20 years old
and I'd be like,
something's not working here.
Something is not right.
And the discovery was
that, hey, it's the food.
There's something in our food
that's incomplete or is not
making us feel well
or is not allowing us
to reach our highest potential.
Any discussion going into the
future of human potential,
the success equation,
personal development,
self-help technology,
spiritual transformation
must now include a
deep and in depth
discussion of the
power of real food.
The power of food that
actually has minerals in it.
Food that has love in it,
that's grown with love,
raised with love, picked
with love, served with love,
and eaten with love.
Food that has an
incredible history,
so that the historical nature
of food is a major factor.
For example, chocolate.
The history of chocolate
is not the history
of some type of bar.
Chocolate bars were invented
in 1838 in Massachusetts.
Before that, chocolate had been
eaten in its natural state,
which was as a bean, as a nut.
It's actually botanically a nut.
And this food, for 5,000 years
of history, in Mexico City
was the money.
It was the currency.
So when you go buy something,
you buy an avocado,
you'd spend two cacao beans.
You'd buy a tomato and
you'd spend one cacao bean.
You'd go buy a
brand new wardrobe,
you'd spend 50 cacao beans.
This was a food, a superfood
that was used as money.
That's how precious
it was to them.
This is what we're
reconnecting to now.
This is what's keeping the
excitement level of what
is happening on the
frontiers of nutrition
at an unbelievable pace.
And the excitement is
allowing the inspiration
to flow through.
And it's also allowing
individuals who never knew
anything about nutrition--
never even heard of it,
never heard of organic food,
never eaten organic food,
had basically been
on a junk food diet--
to be able to access
the best stuff ever,
quickly, without having to
go through this whole process
of going, oh my god, how
do I make bulgur wheat,
or whatever it had
been like before.
Which was just, who
wants to do that anyway?
It's a mess.
We want to make it
as easy as possible.
And the inspiration that's
flowing through right
now, at the frontiers
of nutrition,
is not only making
it great for people
who are advanced
gastronauts, people
who are explorers of food,
but it's also making it easier
for people who are
brand new, to get
right to the front
of the line and get
right past that learning curve.
This is what keeps
me up at night.
This is where the fun really
is, because I can sit there
and I can give, for
example, goji berries
to a child who has never had
normal, natural food before.
And what I mean
normal, natural food.
I'm talking about
food that's grown out
of the earth, that's
in its original state,
and has never had
chemicals on it.
And they can eat that food
and be totally delighted.
[MUSIC PLAYING]